docs: CHANGELOG.md is release-prep only; PRs must not add entries (#4707)
aethersdr/AetherSDR: AGENTS.md

statements about when something landed and stay true forever, so a blanket
find-and-replace across a version bump silently corrupts them.

### `CHANGELOG.md` is a release-prep file. Do not touch it in a feature PR.

The table above is the **only** reason to edit `CHANGELOG.md`: a new version
section, at release prep. An ordinary PR — a fix, a feature, a refactor —
**must not add an entry**, however user-visible the change is. Describe it in
the PR body and the commit message instead; those are where the reasoning

> belongs and neither one conflicts with anything.

Author: **Nit (non-blocking): say where the release section's prose comes from now.**

This is the one thing the rule leaves open. Today the `## [Unreleased]` list is written incrementally by the PRs that merge — that's the side effect of the habit being removed. After this lands, nobody writes to it between releases, so release prep has to author the entire section from scratch, and the table row you point at only specifies *a new section at the top*, not its contents.

That's fine — it's the better tradeoff — but an agent doing release prep six weeks from now reads this paragraph and has no instruction for where the entries come from. One sentence fixes it:

```suggestion
The table above is the **only** reason to edit `CHANGELOG.md`: a new version
section, at release prep. An ordinary PR — a fix, a feature, a refactor —
**must not add an entry**, however user-visible the change is. Describe it in
the PR body and the commit message instead; those are where the reasoning
belongs and neither one conflicts with anything. At release prep, the section
is written *from* those PR bodies — `gh pr list --state merged --search
'merged:>=<last-tag-date>'` is the source of truth for what shipped.
```

This is a mechanical rule, not a stylistic preference. Every entry is prepended
to the top of the same `## [Unreleased]` list, so **any two PRs that both add
one conflict with each other**, and every PR still open when one of them merges
goes stale and needs a manual resolution. With a queue of concurrent agent PRs
that is not an occasional annoyance — it is a conflict on essentially every
pair. The file is append-mostly by nature and merges terribly by construction,
so the fix is to stop writing to it outside the one moment that needs it.

> 
> Reviewers: do not ask for a `CHANGELOG.md` entry, and flag one as a change to
> remove if a PR adds it. There has never been a written rule requiring per-PR
> entries — `CONTRIBUTING.md` has never mentioned the file at all — but the habit
> propagated anyway, by agents reading `git log` and copying what they saw. About
> 45% of recent merges carry an entry, which is the worst of both worlds: not a
> convention anyone can rely on, and enough churn to conflict constantly.
> 

Author: **Nit (non-blocking): date the 45%.**

I re-measured this independently and it is exactly right — 18 of the 40 commits before this branch touch `CHANGELOG.md`, and you measured it the non-circular way (iterating unfiltered history rather than `git log -- CHANGELOG.md`, which would have returned 100% by construction). No dispute on the number.

The issue is only that it's a measurement of the habit *this rule ends*, parked in canon with no timestamp. In three months it will read as a live statistic and be wrong in the direction that undercuts the rule.

```suggestion
Reviewers: do not ask for a `CHANGELOG.md` entry, and flag one as a change to
remove if a PR adds it. There has never been a written rule requiring per-PR
entries — `CONTRIBUTING.md` has never mentioned the file at all — but the habit
propagated anyway, by agents reading `git log` and copying what they saw. When
this rule landed it sat at 45% of recent merges (18 of the last 40, measured
2026-08-02), which is the worst of both worlds: not a convention anyone can
rely on, and enough churn to conflict constantly.
```
